hello again everybody Laszlo Montgomery
with another Chung you Chinese idiom are
saying a quickie today not a long or and
foul story but a useful and relatable
one all the same today we look at the
woman with the unforgettable voice Hana
who coincidentally was also from the
state of Han this ancient state is part
of what's today shun she and her nan and
guess which period of Chinese history
are saying for today originated well if
you guessed the spring and autumn period
you guessed right eastern jo dynasty
again the Han state was completely
surrounded by enemies during the warring
States Period they were the first
Kingdom to go but our story takes place
when they were still around this time
around at the Chinese sayings podcast
we're going to learn about Eugene
Raleigh on and like all the Chinese
sayings we'll look at in this second
season this one has something to do with
music so let's break it down as we
always do Eugene Raleigh on the first
character you means remaining or surplus
among other things Yin is sound though
means to revolve or to coil around and
Leon you know besides being a very
common surname means the beam of a roof
and jolly on means of a sound to
reverberate so at face value these four
characters say remaining sound coils
around the roof beam or reverberates
what can that possibly mean let's find
out today's story comes out of a work we
have not referenced yet the leads this
classic from ancient China along with
the Delta Ching and the drums are the
three books that make up the Taoism
trilogy the three core books of Taoism
and this Chong you comes from Chapter
five of the leads it's called the tang
when the questions of Tong
that's first tone
that means soup but it's also a surname
and in this example is the surname of
the shang dynasty founder Qing Tong the
Xiang being the oldest dynasty in
Chinese history for which we have
written records CHP episodes 15 and 114
if you want to hear more just saying
so from this chapter of the leeet's we
have the story of Han who traveled from
her home in the kingdom of Han to the
neighboring kingdom of Qi Qi is in
Shandong Province it's been mentioned
before by the time hun arrived at the
west gate of the city called the young
men she was starving broke and had run
out of food
as I said Hanna had a beautiful singing
voice she could move people to tears
sometimes hungry and all she set herself
up outside the city gate in the Chi
capital in sooth and began singing for
her supper in that amazing voice she had
she had attracted quite a crowd and
their jaws just dropped as they beheld
the sound of her voice not to mention
her beauty their hearts were moved with
her songs and by the sheer artistry of
what they were hearing and when she left
her spot beside the young man to go look
for an inn to rest people still stood by
the city gate listening even though
there was nobody there anymore and for
three days it was said when people
stopped outside that spot at Youngman
where she sang it said the sound of
Hanna's unforgettable melodious voice
still lingered as if she was still
standing there meanwhile Hanna didn't
have enough cash to get a room at any in
and on top of that the innkeeper really
laid into her and scolded her for her
poverty and just gave her a whole
attitude because of her empty purse and
he told Han to beat it she burst into
tears at the hopelessness of her
situation and for the cold-heartedness
of the innkeeper those were close by
heard the sound of her weeping and were
so overwhelmed with grief and sadness
the
selves that they too were hit with this
on governor will fit of sobbing and some
people were so moved by hon that they
couldn't sleep or eat for three days and
so they took pity on her and fed her
gave her strings of cash and begged her
to return to the young men to sing her
songs and make everybody happy and
cheerful and that's what she did and
she's saying for the people of Qi and
the residents there who over time also
acquired a reputation for their
excellent singing would say of Hana you
young Rolly on that the sound of Han is
singing lingered had reverberated among
the rafters and well there's a rejoinder
to this you know sort of like in that in
that past episode from last season
episode three of a swan feather from a
thousand miles away gently solo mall
that Chung you would be followed with
the words Li ching-ching II Joan it's a
mere trifle but it's heavy with meaning
and affection well in the case of Hana
not only did the sounds linger among the
rafters but sanzu bhujette it didn't
stop for three days
Simon's ear three days pooja was
prolonged so that's the complete deluxe
version of this song you four characters
plus four but just like chin lee seong
ilmo all you have to say is you young
Jolyon
then you're in like Flynn the rejoinder
know it's necessary oh if you want the
best of both worlds there's also a
conjunction of the two that goes Valley
on it reverberated among the rafters
sanzu for three days but if you just say
you you ollie on you're golden
no one's gonna look at you funny or call
you a jerk nowadays this Chung you is
used to describe what you might say
after hearing an incredible speech or
after attending a TED talk or anything
like that and if the word spoken
affected you you know like words can do
sometimes then you could tell your
friend you
Zhang Liang Wow the words are still
reverberating in my head so you can use
it that way to anything a speech a tune
a podcast whatever if you can't get that
out of your head you have every right to
say you you John Young or any of the
other variations of that Chung you and
as the rejoinder Simon or Bujji a
completely optional
so that watashi no Eugene is gonna be
that for this time nothing long and
drawn-out a quick simple and easy
Chinese sang with a simple and easy
story attached to it I use this one
every now and then
now you can to Eugene Charlie on and if
you haven't figured out yet
all the Chinese names and words as well
as the tone marks on the pinyin are all
available for you at the website to
assist you if you need it
that's a teacup top media I'm sure I
don't have to tell you about the China
history podcast and China vintage our
two other podcast programs for such
intelligent and good-looking listeners
like yourselves all available for free
as I said at tea cup dot media and also
don't forget if you're traveling on
Cathay Pacific Airways and you get the
itch to learn some Chinese history or a
few Chinese sayings and you forgot your
Sony Walkman all you got to do is hook
yourself up to a cafe's award-winning
in-flight entertainment system and
listen away hours upon hours of China
history podcasts and Chinese sayings to
help you survive that long flight and
think how much smarter you'll be when
you get to your destination ok enough
grandstanding for all these audio
on-demand programs at teacup media on
behalf of joe way leading the team at
the chung new research center
this here is Laszlo Montgomery signing
off once again from the City of Angels
Jojo los Angie please consider coming
back next time would you for another
useful
satisfying and nutritious Chung you here
at the Chinese sayings podcast
you